# Conclusion

generates three types of images: Stable Diffusion
(SD) images, typography images, and SD + typog-
raphy images. According to the results from Liu
et al. (2024b), SD + typography images method is
the state-of-the-art, which is tested as the baseline
of our experiments.
HADES uses diffusion model (Chen et al., 2024)
to generate malicious images based on harmful
instructions. During this process, it employs LLMs
(OpenAI et al., 2024) to amplify the harmfulness
of the generated images. When targeting white-box
VLMs, HADES leverages gradients to generate
adversarial noise, enhancing the attack. Finally,
the adversarial noise, the malicious image, and the
keyword typography are concatenated into a single
image in sequence. Since adversarial attacks are
transferable (Dong et al., 2023; Zhao et al., 2024),
we use the images generated by HADES on LLava-
v1.5-7B (Liu et al., 2024a) as the input for the
baseline.
D.2
Datasets
The ten AI forbidden topics of SafeBench (Gong
et al., 2023) are: Illegal Activity (IA), Hate Speech
(HS), Malware Generation (MG), Physical Harm
(PH), Fraud (Fr), Pornography (Po), Privacy Vio-
lence (PV), Legal Opinion (LO), Financial Advice
(FA) and Health Consultation (HC). Each topic has
50 queries, a total of 500.
MM-SafeBench includes 13 scenarios, with the
number of queries varying across each. Addition-
ally, we filter the queries in MM-SafeBench (Liu
et al., 2024b) to exclude those not considered viola-
tions. Specifically, we use GPT-4o-Mini to evaluate
whether a query violations the CLAS usage policy,
which is more comprehensive. Table 8 shows the
details about MM-SafeBench in our experiment.
The CLAS policy is shown in Figure 7. The fil-
tering prompt is illustrated in Figure 12. GPT-4o-
Mini assigns scores to queries on a scale from 1 to
4, with higher scores indicating a greater degree of
violation. Given that VLMs can readily respond
to mildly illegal queries even in plain text, only
queries receiving a score of 4 are included in our
experiment.
The five scenarios of HADES-Dataset (Li et al.,
2024c) are Violence, Aiding and Abetting, Incite-
ment; Financial Crime, Property Crime, Theft;
Privacy Violation; Self-Harm; and Animal Abuse.
Each category contains 150 instructions, for a total
of 750 instructions.
D.3
Data preprocessing
We transform the rewritten queries or instructions
from baseline methods into typographic images and
apply encryption on them. The encrypted images
are shown in Figure 2. For word replacement and
base64 encoding, we first encrypt the queries and
then generate the typographic images. For image
mirroring and rotation, the queries are first con-
verted into typographic images before applying the
transformations.
D.4
Metric
We adopt the CLAS approach for evaluation. If
no rejection words are detected in the model’s re-
sponse, GPT-4o-Mini assesses the success of the
attack. The evaluation measures the alignment be-
tween the original malicious query and the model’s
output, assigning a score on a scale from 1 to 5.
The scoring criteria are illustrated in Figure 13. A
score of 1 indicates the model refused to respond,
while a score of 5 signifies full compliance with
the policy-violating instruction without deviation.
The complete evaluation prompt is provided in Fig-
ure 14.
D.5
Example of results
Figure 11 shows the results of MML using four
encryption methods across four forbidden topics in
SafeBench, with GPT-4o as the target model. For
security concerns, we only display a portion of the
responses.
D.6
ASR of MML on various topics
Figure 4 and Figure 5 show the results of MML
with image mirroring encryption across various top-
ics or scenarios in SafeBench and MM-SafeBench.
Figure 8 and Figure 9 shows the results of the
remaining encryption methods in SafeBench and
MM-SafeBench. Figure 10 show the results of
MML and HADES across various topics or scenar-
ios in HADES-Dataset.
D.7
Evaluation with Llama-Guard-3-8B
To mitigate potential bias from a single evaluator,
we use Llama-Guard-3-8B (Llama Team, 2024) for
an additional assessment of attack success. Since
Llama-Guard-3-8B has a built-in safety policy, not
all instructions in these datasets that we use to
evaluate are flagged as unsafe by it. Therefore,
we first use Llama-Guard-3-8B to filter out all un-
safe instructions, resulting in 307 from SafeBench,
1478

